`21.7.22
more well (X) -> better
spread idea, spread his philosophy
philosophy
daunting = different
in a controlled way
depression
conciousness

provocative
If behaviour or clothing is provocative, it is intended to cause sexual desire:
She slowly leaned forward in a provocative way.

impluse
[ C + to infinitive ]
a sudden strong wish to do something:
I had this sudden ✔impulse to shout out "Nonsense!" in the middle of her speech.

temptation
the wish to do or have something that you know you should not do or have:
[ + to infinitive ] As a young actress, she resisted the ✔temptation to move to Hollywood.


`21.7.21
Pygmalion effect
rats experiment
IQ test experiment
expectations of behaviour
negative effect


at the first time... in my first go
be cautious __of__
expectation of someone
I was first time...it was my first time
satisfied with your performance
apply vs. supply
leadership position
to have good opinion of someone
believe in myself
cheered me on. - encouraged
supportive of me...
categorizing people
concretized
eternally - forever
✔flexible mind
generalize
positivity
How can we avoid being affected by other people's
negative biases?
new recruits - freshmen
✔adapting to
✔problem with
to commit suicide
questioned - to be interviewed by the police
✔bullying
immoral - wrong behaviour
report
to share the workload
✔abolish a tradition
✔get revenge - to retaliate - to do what was done to you
all the anger was directed towards me
showed hostility towards me
spoke with bitterness - negative feeling
animosity towards - feeling of enemies
to feel bitter
just behave they way you were behaving
it subsided (v) - negative situation passes
you will overcome the difficulty
✔get through a difficult situation
triumphed - victorious - you stuck to your values
- succumb (give into) to immoral behaviour


`21.7.20
courage
the ability to control your fear in a dangerous or difficult situation:
They showed great courage when they found out about their baby's disability.
[ + to infinitive ] People should ✔have the courage to stand up for their beliefs.

stand up for sth/sb (also stick up for sth/sb)
to defend or support a particular idea or a person who is being criticized or attacked:
It's high time we all ✔stood up for our rights around here.
Don't be bullied, learn to stand up for yourself and what you believe in.

regulatory
controlling:
a regulatory body/organization

compelled
having to do something, because you are forced to or feel it is necessary:
[ + to infinitive ] He felt compelled to report the incident.



`21.7.19
get together (phrasal verb)
If two or more people get together, they meet each other, having arranged it before:
Shall we ✔get together on Friday and go for a drink or something?

get-toegther (n)
an informal meeting or social occasion, often arranged for a particular purpose:
a family ✔get-together
to have a get-together

on your toes = ready to act a difficult situation, alert
undergo qurantine
✔tends to be 

New vocabulary
covid negative
I need to test negative
I need to make sure not COVID positive
Covid negative
carry a covid negative test result

departure
purpose - to make

come over
1. to seem to be a particular type of person: (SEEM)
I watched the interview and felt he came over as quite arrogant.
I think she comes over as very nervous.
He doesn't come over as particularly trustworthy.
2. to come to a place, move from one place to another, or move towards someone: (MOVE)
Come over here!
Is your family coming over from Greece for the wedding?

pristine
new or almost new, and in very good condition:
pristine new offices
Washing machine for sale - only two months old and in pristine condition.

for an educational company
reluctant
believe in
it big scare
over protective
undergo - subjected to
exempt from
diverse landscapes
rote learning - memorizing to take tests
utoipia - utopic
deep vs. shallow
to tame an animal - to gain control over an animal
✔convictions - beliefs
nuances - a small difference in interpretation - language
✔bird's eye view, to see the big picture
✔to take responsibility for something - if you mistake - you will fix it
Hyosik is responsible for the broken plate - Hyosik did it!
periphery - boundary
drama queen
to make a mountain out of a mole hill - to make a big deal out of something
constructive


COGNITIVE BIAS
1) Opinions - presumption/prejudment (judginge before knowing) - misconception (wrong concept)
well-groomed - values - assume - self-discipline - [vain (arrogance about appearance) - kind] - incorrect
Consider the Opposing View-Point
All Americans are stuck up (proud) - stereotype
2) Drawing Conclusion without Evidence
3) Tendency to be Rigid (inflexible), Harsh (intolerant), Pessimistic (negative) - Impulsive/Negative thought - thinking positively/constructively
to have a positive inner monologue - discussion with yourself
4) To be skeptical - to not believe

Nuances - language...tone...causing small changes in meanings - bias


`21.7.18
left overs
mitigate the risks
santizer
alcohol swab
to jump on the bandwagon
anti-vaxxer
I am worried - I am concerned
it is a concerning issue
autopsy
on your toes - ready to act
it wasn't bad but it wasn't useful either...
✔experience was worthwhile
schools - university - practical - skills instead of theory
theories
principals of problem-solving
hard
ethically
honestly
✔contribute to society
Utopic idea
lifestyle
motivation - contribution to society, satisfaction from personal growth (learning)
shallow (not deep/profound) life - shallow values - money, appearance, power
bequeath
do a lot of practice
you hit the nail on the head - you got the main point
fluent in a language
competent at doing something
✔emphasize the use of the knowledge/comprehend
memorization of the knowledge
innovative
✔on the earth (not in the earth)
✔respect (verb) other countries
✔have respect for other countries - I have respect for my parents.
collaboration - cooperation - equality - fair business


`21.7.16
ganered = attracted
How much true it is -> How true it is.
invest in
consider about -> consider it
impactful towards s
legitimate - ethical

garner information - collect information
to mitigate a risk - to reduce the severity of the risk
barrage of media stories - a lot of
to jump on a bandwagon - to share in the opinion of a group
to be concerned - worried
to be concerning - to be the cause for concern/worry
autopsy - to take something apart to understand the cause of a problem
scale - size
bespoke nature of Facebook's problems - specific to Facebook, unique
scenario has been likened to - compared to because of similarity


✔discern (RECOGNIZE)
to see, recognize, or understand something that is not clear:
I could just discern a figure in the darkness.
It is difficult to ✔discern any pattern in these figures.

distinguish [ I or T, not continuous ]
to notice or understand the difference between two things, or to make one person or thing seem different from another:
He's colour-blind and ✔can't distinguish (the difference) between red and green easily.
I sometimes have difficulty distinguishing Spanish from Portuguese.
It's important to distinguish between business and pleasure.

autopsy
the cutting open and examination of a dead body in order to discover the cause of death:
They carried out/performed an autopsy.
The body arrived for autopsy at the Dallas hospital.


`21.7.15
✔toward
in the direction of, or closer to someone or something:
She stood up and walked toward him.
He leaned toward his wife and whispered, "Can we go home soon?"

bureaucracy (MANAGEMENT)
a system for controlling or managing a country, company, or organization that is operated by a large number of officials employed to follow rules carefully:
I had to deal with the university's bureaucracy when I was applying for financial aid.

ostracize - to be socially condemned and rejected
to avoid someone intentionally, or to prevent someone from taking part in the activities of a group:
His colleagues ostracized him after he criticized the company in public.

restriction
an official limit on something:
At the turn of the century, Congress ✔imposed/placed a height restriction of 13 storeys on all buildings in Washington.

barring
except if a particular thing happens:
We should arrive at ten o'clock, barring any (= if there are no) unexpected delays.

✔circumstance
a fact or event that makes a situation the way it is:
I think she coped very well under the circumstances.
Obviously we can't deal with the problem until we know all the circumstances.
She died in suspicious circumstances.

*Big-tech
- Scrutiny of mergers -> for businiss Diversity
- New ruls on data collection -> Threat to identity and freedom 
- Barring unfair methods of competition on internet marketplaces. -> fair circumstance
*Desirable
- If the restriction is done legitimately and have resonable reasons, then it's desirable. Because it will decrese the threat for people to be encounter in the future. For example, if Big tech aquire the massive amount of personal data they might be predict people's mind and even emotion in the near future. Then they manipulate people's mind to make more their own profits. That's very dangerous.


`21.7.14
- Population decline, automation, eductaion (ESG?), desirable values, euthanasia
- Workation

- /oppose/
- After 2040, (not since 2040)
- Reson for it

* Population decline
1. Desirable  /dɪˈzaɪr.ə.bəl/
    - Good for the earth. Cab use less resources
2. Preparation
    2.1 Automation
        - Repetitive and demedning jobs/work (not works -> factories), ex. Autonomous driving, housework
        - Make possible for people to focus on the better lifestyles and more precious values. 
    2.2 Education 
        2.2.1 Job education
            - Techonology change will be destructive. 
            - We need to be prepared about those changes. 
            - Long term specialty and shor term sepcialty
        2.2.2 Value education
            - Need to change Capitalistic, materialistic mind → pursing desirable values
 
* Desirable values
1. What are they?
    - Commonly accepted values in the world.  ex. Freedom, Fairness, Safety, Environment, Responsibility, Learning, etc.
2. How can we teach them to different people in the world?
    - Facilitate by scoring ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) level from the nonprofit international organizations such as UN.
    2.2.1 Support for third-world and developing countries
        - In order to think about desirable values, Basic needs need to be satisfied
        - Basic needs:  Physiological needs (food, water, warmth, rest), Safety needs (security, safety)
        - Quatified the level of contributions as ESG score to facilitate developed countries and companies to support the third-world and developing countries
    2.2.2 International school, and university
        - ESG score for educateing third-world and developing countries' people
        - Facilitate for the third-world and developing countries to pursue desirable values by educating their people in developed countries' school
        - Quatified the educational institutions' contributions as ESG score to facilitate for organizations to educate them

To play Devil's Advocate.
euthanasia /ˌjuː.θəˈneɪ.ʒə/, also called mercy killing.
Utopia - Dystopia


`21.7.13
when did you got the vaccine?
we were required to

✔lifted all restriction
(removed)
reckless - irresponsible
radical - extreme

cramming - studying a lot
in a small amount of time
pushing info. into the brain

✔revealed the scandal
develop cities
destroy the forest
even though the impact is global
we saw its worldwide
rainforest - carbon sink
pay tax?
inundate - fill with (TOO MUCH)
I was inundated with happiness
red herrings - conflicting reports
✔they are censoring ...
/strategic (pron.)/
accounts - reports
cross-check

understanding the bigger picture
gaining a holistic understanding
to✔ see something from a bird's eye view
broad picture

inundate [T] (TOO MUCH)
to give someone so much work or so many things that they cannot deal with it all:
We have been inundated with requests for help.

`21.7.12
VOX
Educate people,
Mkae a society for ppl to make ends their meets.

Population decline
- Opinion
 ,  Good for the earth
 , b/c limited resources but we are using a lot of energy per person
- Preparation
 , Automation: Repetitive, demanding work. ex.driving, housework  
 , Education:


`21.7.11
churn [ I or T ]   BUSINESS   specialized
If customers churn between different companies that provide a particular service, they change repeatedly from one to another.

✔only to do sth
used to show that something is surprising or unexpected:
He spent months negotiating for a pay increase, only to resign from his job soon after he'd received it.
그는 임금 인상을 위해 수개월을 협상했지만, 결국 그 일을 받자마자 사직했다.

slack (NOT TIGHT)
not tight; loose:
These tent ropes are too slack - they need tightening.

inundate [ T ] (TOO MUCH)
to give someone so much work or so many things that they cannot deal with it all:
We have been inundated with requests for help.

impart [ T ]
1. to communicate information to someone:
to impart the bad news
I was rather quiet as I didn't feel I had much wisdom to impart on the subject.
2. to give something a particular feeling, quality, or taste:
Preservatives can impart colour and flavour to a product.

`21.7.10
sow [ I or T ]
to put seeds in or on the ground so that plants will grow:
Sow the seeds in pots.
We'll sow this field with barley.

governmental institutes
the Department of Education
ministry [ C ]
a government department led by a minister:
All the ministries were represented at the meeting – justice, foreign affairs, economic affairs, and the interior.

exploit [ T ] (USE WELL)
to use something in a way that helps you:
We need to make sure that we ✔exploit our resources as fully as possible.

fulfill [ T ] (MAKE HAPPEN)
to do something that is expected, hoped for, or promised, or to cause it to happen:
A school fails if it does not ✔fulfill the needs/requirements of its students.
At the age of 45, she finally fulfilled her ambition to run a marathon.

implement [ T ]
to start using a plan or system:
The changes to the national health ✔system will be implemented next year.
The determination of policy is not your business - your job is to implement it.
Local councils will be given some leeway as to how they implement the legislation.


`21.7.9
emphasis
the particular importance or attention that is given to something:
I think we should ✔put as much emphasis on preventing disease as we do on curing it.

figure out
to understand or solve something:
figure out how/why/what, etc. If they know the cause of the problem, they might be able to ✔figure out how to prevent it happening again.

rise to

a lot of consumption
consumption only takes place during part of the year

make ends meets - pay the bills
the blind leading the blind

/debt/ > ✔/det/ 

step in, intervene
intervene [ I ]
to intentionally become involved in a difficult situation in order to improve it or prevent it from getting worse:
The Central Bank ✔intervened in the currency markets today to try to stabilize the exchange rate.
[ + to infinitive ] The minister intervened personally to stop the museum from being closed.

GREED
a very strong wish to continuously get more of something, especially food or money:
I don't know why I'm eating more - it's not hunger, ✔it's just greed!

awareness - external things
conciousness - ideology/internal things

spiral out of control
If a situation spirals, it quickly gets worse in a way that becomes more and more difficult to control:
Violence in the country is threatening to spiral out of control.
He spiralled into a drug addiction that cost him his life.

pursue
If you pursue a plan, activity, or situation, you try to do it or achieve it, usually over a long period of time:
He decided to pursue a career in television.
We need to decide soon what marketing strategy we should pursue for these new products.

the pursuit of
the act of trying to achieve a plan, activity, or situation, usually over a long period of time:
✔the pursuit of happiness
The company is ruthless in its pursuit of profit.

permit 
to allow something:
The regulations do not permit much flexibility.
[ + -ing verb ] The prison authorities permit visiting only once a month.
[ + obj + to infinitive ] The security system will not ✔permit you to enter without the correct password.

offset
realestate companies
why can't banks forgive mortgage during COVID?
it is permitting to pursue
cold hard truth


`21.7.8
he want to ... wants to

he is thinking 100 years into the future

IN REALITY - sustainbly on Earth

human industrialization 200 years ago...
200 - exhausted the earths resources

millions of years

eyesore
an unpleasant or ugly sight in a public place:
They think the new library building is an eyesore.

solar power - unlimited resources
geothermal
wind
biogas
biofuel

APPLY THE SAME MODEL
MODEL - COLONIZATION
BRITISH
FRENCH
DUTCH

hope for

standard of living (phrase)

pursuing his passion
securing our children's future
exploiting their world - use it for yourself .... your own benefit
2 billion

cut throat industry
- you can only survive if you destroy someone else
capitalism - survival of the fittest
division
disparity

population stagnation

raze - demolished
hard to fathom - hard to believe
strain of longer lives
upend - upset/destroy
paradigm shift - change in strucutre
ramafications


`21.7.7
✔come up with sth
to suggest or think of an idea or plan:
She's come up with some amazing scheme to double her income.

✔pity < sympathy < empathy < compassion
In general, 'sympathy' is when you share the feelings of another; 'empathy' is when you understand the feelings of another but do not necessarily share them.

✔sympathize [ I ] (understand problems)  /ˈsɪm.pə.θaɪz/
1. to understand and care about someone's problems: (UNDERSTAND)
I know what it's like to have migraines, so I really sympathize (with you).
2. to support and agree with someone or something: (SUPPORT)
I sympathize with the general aims of the organization, but on this particular issue I disagree.
✔empathize [ I ] (understand problems and feel same)  /ˈem.pə.θaɪz/
to be able to understand how someone else feels:
It's very easy to empathize with the characters in her books.

emphasize [ T ]  /ˈem.fə.saɪz/
to show that something is very important or worth giving attention to:
[ + question word ] I'd just like to emphasize how important it is for people to learn foreign languages.
[ + that ] He emphasized that all the people taking part in the research were volunteers.

contraception
(the use of) any of various methods intended to prevent a woman becoming pregnant:
They offer impartial advice on contraception.
What is the most reliable form/method of contraception?

✔maternity
n. the state of being a mother
adj. related to pregnancy and birth:
maternity clothes

raze
to completely destroy a city, building, etc.:
The town ✔was razed to the ground in the bombing raid - not a building was left standing.

adjustment
a small change:
She made a few minor adjustments to the focus of her camera.

/latter/ vs /later/

upend
to push or move something so that the part that usually touches the ground is not touching the ground any more:
She upended the chessboard halfway through the game because she was losing.

procreation
the process of producing young animals or babies:
Some people believe that sex should only be for the purpose of procreation.


`21.7.6
✔/mechanism/

✔In the end vs At the end
at the end refers to a specific time or location, while in the end is an idiomatic phrase that means in conclusion or in summary.

hostile
unfriendly and not liking something:
a hostile crowd
The president had a hostile reception in Ohio this morning.

forage [ I ]
to go from place to place searching for things that you can eat or use:
The children had been living on the streets, foraging for scraps.
The pigs foraged in the woods for acorns.

✔Cope with vs Deal with
- cope with - tolerating the problem (learning to live with it not fixing it, tolerating)
to deal successfully with a difficult situation:
It must be really hard to cope with three young children and a job.
It's only been a year since he died - how's she coping?
- deal with - fixing the problem + tolerating the problem
to talk to someone or meet someone, especially as part of your job:
She's used to dealing with difficult customers.

KPI - key performances indicators 
salesperson - KPI of 2 sales per day
KPI - targets
Amazon Robot - number of boxes that he moves from the inventory shelves to the dispatch area
- number of orders fulfilled
- injuries caused - zero
- damage to self - minimize
- time taken per order - minimized
- work time - limit it to 4 hours - 30 min charging break
- orders taken from humans - maximize
- balancing rule (humans vs. order fulfilment)
- priority rule

✔physically demanding
intellectually - repetitive - mundane 


`21.7.5
don't get involved
don't interfere

✔respect
n. respect for sth (ADMIRATION) [ U ]
admiration felt or shown for someone or something that you believe has good ideas or qualities:
I have great/the greatest ✔respect for his ideas, although I don't agree with them.
v. respect (ADMIRE) [ T ] 
to feel or show admiration for someone or something that you believe has good ideas or qualities:
I deeply respect David for what he has achieved.

periodically

brittleness of AI - when something is brittle it breaks easily, it is inflexible

believe vs. trust

route

wouldn't be adapted... adapt to it

the computer don't... doesn't

adapt
[ T ]
to change, or to change something, to suit different conditions or uses:
Many software companies have adapted popular programs to the new operating system.
[ I ]
to change your ideas or behaviour to make them suitable for a new situation:
The good thing about children is that ✔they adapt very easily to new environments.


`21.7.2
confront
to face, meet, or deal with a difficult situation or person:
As she left the court, she was confronted by angry crowds who tried to block her way.
It's an issue we'll have to confront at some point, no matter how unpleasant it is.

✔overhaul
1. to repair an engine, machine, etc. so that every part of it works as it should:
I got the engine overhauled.
2. to completely change a system so that it works more effectively:
The government has recently overhauled the healthcare system.

ramification
the possible results of an action:
Have you considered all the ramifications of your suggestion?
a move that could have major ramifications for top tech companies like Google and Amazon.

hash out
to talk about something with someone else in order to reach agreement about it:
You two hash out the details of the presentation.
Negotiations remain ongoing, with technical details set to be hashed out between now and October. 

✔take a (long, close, hard) look at sth
to examine something (very) carefully in order to improve it in the future:
We need to take a long, hard look at the way we control gun ownership.

/repres`enting/

✔jurisdiction
on board
only to, ex. + only to - = zero
trashed out = work out ?
accord = agreement
How do you think of it? → ✔What do you think of it?

`21.6.30
complaint
a formal statement that someone has harmed somebody else or done something illegal, which must be proved in a court of law:
✔file/lodge a complaint A complaint alleging financial wrongdoing was lodged with the district attorney's office.

lawsuit
a problem taken to a law court by an ordinary person or an organization rather than the police in order to obtain a legal decision:
Two of the directors ✔filed a lawsuit against their former employer.
mainly UK They brought a lawsuit against the company.

coalition
a group of two or more political parties working together to win an election or govern an area:
form/build/assemble a coalition With no party having gained overall control in the election, the two largest parties hope to form a coalition.
enter into/join a coalition
a coalition government

ruling 
an official decision, especially one by a judge, a court, or other authority:
a ruling is upheld/overturned The ruling was later overturned by the state Supreme Court.

✔side with sb
to support one person or group in an argument:
If ever there was any sort of argument, she'd always side with my father against me.

lodge 
1. to make an official complaint about something: (COMPLAIN)
✔lodge a claim, complaint, protest, etc.
The US lodged a formal protest against the arrest of the foreign reporters.
2. [ I or T, usually + adv/prep ]
to (cause to) become stuck in a place or position: (STOCK)
A fish bone had lodged in her throat.
3. [ T usually + adv/prep ] mainly UK formal
to put something in a safe place: (STORE)
You should lodge a copy of the letter with your solicitor.
4. [ I usually + adv/prep ] formal (STAY)
to pay rent to stay somewhere:
She lodged with Mrs Higgins when she first came to Cambridge.

file
to officially record something such as a complaint:
✔file a lawsuit/a suit/charges He is planning to file a lawsuit against the current chairman for an alleged violation of a clause in his contract.
file a complaint/claim/petition

rule
to decide officially:
Only the Appeal Court can rule on this point.
The judge ruled for/in favour of/against the defendant.
[ + that ] The government ✔has ruled that the refugees must be deported.

attorney
a lawyer :
a defense attorney

attorney general
the top legal officer in some countries, whose job is to provide legal advice to the government and to represent the government

✔antitrust
relating to efforts to prevent companies from working together to control prices unfairly or to create a monopoly (= a single company or group of companies that is the only supplier of something)

dismissal
1. the situation in which an employer officially makes someone leave their job:
unfair/wrongful dismissal
2. a decision that something or someone is not important and not worth considering:
The lawyer is seeking a dismissal of the charges against his client.

✔dismiss
1. to remove someone from their job, especially because they have done something wrong:
He has been dismissed from his job for incompetence.
2. to decide that something or someone is not important and not worth considering:
I think he'd dismissed me as an idiot within five minutes of meeting me.
Let's not just dismiss the idea before we've even thought about it.


`21.6.29
✔contend
1. to compete in order to win something:
There are three world-class tennis players contending for this title.
He's contending against someone with twice his experience.
2. to say that something is true or is a fact:
The lawyer contended (that) her client had never been near the scene of the crime.

covert
hidden or secret:
covert actions

cover-up
an attempt to prevent the public from discovering information about a serious crime or mistake:
Allegations of a cover-up of the effects of pollution have been strongly denied.

to see it for myself

extraterrestrial
in or coming from a place outside the planet Earth:
In those rocks may lie the best chance of finding extraterrestrial life.

sighting
an occasion when you see something or someone, especially something that is rare or trying to hide:
This is the first sighting of this particularly rare bird in this country.

`21.7.4
✔intrigue
to interest someone a lot, especially by being strange, unusual, or mysterious:
Throughout history, people have been intrigued by the question of whether there is intelligent life elsewhere in the universe.

satellite offices vs mobile offices?

blessing in disguise

deal with a problem - fixing it

cope with a problem - tolerating it


to help employees to work from remotely ... remotely

experiment with (corrected)

make... made it easier (past simple)

the purpose of decrease... decreasing (verb-ing) CO2 levels

it emits (pron.)

radar (pron.)


`21.6.28
having a nap (kip), 
I'm going to have forty winks

✔indulge
to allow yourself or someone else to have something enjoyable:
[ I ] When I get my first paycheck I’m going to indulge in a shopping spree.
[ T ] He indulged his passion for skiing whenever he could.

spree
a short period of doing a particular, usually enjoyable, activity much more than is usual:
I went on a drinking/shopping/spending spree on Saturday.

✔regard
to consider or have an opinion about something or someone:
Environmentalists regard GM technology with suspicion.
Her parents always regarded her as the smartest of their children.
He is generally/widely regarded as the father of international law.

✔regarding
about:
The company is being questioned regarding its employment policy.
in relation to; about:
I have a question regarding your last statement.

✔in/with regard to 
in connection with:
I am writing to you with regard to your letter of 15 March.

✔stand for
1. If you will not stand for something, you will not accept a situation or a particular type of behaviour:
I wouldn't stand for that sort of behaviour from him, if I were you.
2. to represent a particular idea:
You have to identify what you want your brand to stand for.
This party has always stood for working-class values.


`21.6.25
“Is my team ploughing,
That I was used to drive
And hear the harness jingle
When I was man alive?”

Ay, the horses trample,
The harness jingles now;
No change though you lie under
The land you used to plough.

“Is football playing
Along the river shore,
With lads to chase the leather,
Now I stand up no more?”

Ay the ball is flying,
The lads play heart and soul;
The goal stands up, the keeper
Stands up to keep the goal.

“Is my girl happy,
That I thought hard to leave,
And has she tired of weeping
As she lies down at eve?”

Ay, she lies down lightly,
She lies not down to weep:
Your girl is well contented.
Be still, my lad, and sleep.

“Is my friend hearty,
Now I am thin and pine,
And has he found to sleep in
A better bed than mine?”

Yes, lad, I lie easy,
I lie as lads would choose;
I cheer a dead man’s sweetheart,
Never ask me whose.

`21.6.22
Bring other countries to their side
cut-and-dry, simple

`21.6.21
bolster, strengthen
to support or improve something or make it stronger:
More money is needed to bolster the industry.
She tried to bolster my confidence/morale (= encourage me and make me feel stronger) by telling me that I had a special talent.

rampost, 

/strategic/, strat`egic
critical, important, judgemental

✔autocrat, dictator, owners and ceo in business
a ruler with unlimited power, or someone who demands that people completely obey them

dictoatorship
a country ruled by a dictator:
a military dictatorship

grapples with, fight with, restle,
to fight, especially in order to win something:
The children grappled for the ball.

✔deter, put them off, persuade not to do something
to prevent someone from doing something or to make someone less enthusiastic about doing something by making it difficult for that person to do it or by threatening bad results if they do it:
These measures are designed to deter an enemy attack.
High prices are deterring many young people from buying houses.

propel, push forward

hone
to make something perfect or completely suitable for its purpose:
His physique was honed to perfection.
Her debating skills were honed in the students' union.

flank
to be at the side of someone or something:
The president was flanked by senior advisors.
Secret Service agents flanked the president’s car.

rally
[ I or T ]
to (cause to) come together in order to provide support or make a shared effort:
Supporters/Opponents of the new shopping development are trying to rally local people in favour of/against it.
The president has called on the people to rally to/behind the government.

`21.6.20
✔if we weren't aligned to the tidal times we wouldn't be able to reach the island. 

depth
✔on the west it is less deep so the tidal changes are more apparent
It has a greater depth
It a lower depth

clear water
along the coastline 
there are a lot of ... is a lot of snow
a diverse landscapes

watched a position... ✔saw, discovered
watch - longer actions - watching TV

✔scenic views, picturesque, breathtaking

`21.6.16
hey fevor
ward off, defend
Interoperability, Intraoperability
✔Compliance, obedience, agreement
Overseen, v.Oversee, n.Oversight
Fend off, ward off, defend
Onus, responsibility. ex. onus on smt/organization/institute
Get the ball rolling, start things on
Shore up, strengthen.
✔Mandate, stronger than obligation

`21.6.14
incompatible /incompatiable/
not able to exist or work with another person or thing because of basic differences:
When we started living together we realized how incompatible we were - our interests were so different.
Maintaining quality is incompatible with increasing output.

communique /communikei/
an official piece of news or an announcement, especially to the public or newspapers:
The palace has issued a communiqué denying the rumour.

jurisdiction
the authority of a court or official organization to make decisions and judgments :
The court has no jurisdiction in/over cases of this kind.
School admissions are not under/within our jurisdiction.

/1.5 degrees celcius/

✔pledge /pledge/
to make a serious or formal promise to give or do something:
We are asking people to pledge their support for our campaign.
If you join the armed forces, you have to pledge allegiance to your country.

✔vow /vaw/
to make a determined decision or promise to do something:
[ + (that) ] The guerrillas vowed (that) they would overthrow the government.
[ + to infinitive ] After the awful meals we had last Christmas, I vowed to do more of the cooking myself.

abate
to become less strong:
The storm/wind/rain has started to abate.
The fighting in the area shows no sign of abating.

`21.6.10
GDP = Consumption + Investment + Government spending + Net exports
GDP Growth Rate, recession, Digital economy hard to mesure, Well being

feudal priviledge - old fashioned
overturn - cancel, undoing
denizen - foreigner
to frequent - to go to
aristocracy - rich people rule
classes
less apologetic - don't care
non-inclusive
flaw - mistake, error
fortune - money
offspring - children

to hail from - came from
it makes a big difference
top-notch
disguised - under guise
have-nots - underpriviledged
to bemoan - complain
your lot - your situation, their plight (difficult situation)
dispiriting

`21.6.7
assimilate.
to become part of a group, country, society, etc., or to make someone or something become part of a group, country, society, etc.:
The European Union should remain flexible enough to assimilate more countries quickly.
You shouldn't expect immigrants to assimilate into an alien culture immediately.

abduct
to force someone to go somewhere with you, often using threats or violence:
The company director was abducted from his car by terrorists.

be subject to
to have or experience a particular thing, especially something unpleasant:
Cars are subject to a high domestic tax.
In recent years, she has been subject to attacks of depression.

`21.6.6
-Wooldridge worries that a new aristocracy is doing what aristocracies do – passing on their privileges to their children – but under a meritocratic and educational guise that makes it harder for the have-nots to bemoan their lot.
-Yet village children or students whose parents cannot afford extra tutoring stand fewer chances.
-But given the scope for financial muscle to give offspring access to schools that can make Oxbridge entry much more likely, it’s naive to think that everything has changed.
-It may be that meritocracy as a system is unfixable, because it by definition creates those who not only lose out but feel that it’s their fault. To maintain its ubiquity, governments will either have to tax inheritances, or find some way to make education less of an elite club.

- merit
the quality of being good and deserving praise:
an entertaining film with little artistic merit
Her ideas have merit.
Brierley's book has the merit of being both informative and readable.

`21.6.3
New vocabulary
someone's account of the events - their memory of it... telling the story

haste - rush...

the rat race - people competing to get the best... career, money
a way of life in modern society, in which people compete with each other for power and money:
He decided to ✔get out of the rat race, and went to work on a farm.

to do a shoddy job
badly and carelessly made, using low quality materials:
✔shoddy goods
shoddy workmanship

backwardness - not modern externally, materially, thinking
the state of not being advanced, or of not using modern methods, technology, or machines:
They were accused of backwardness because they had no washing machine.

✔insatiable desire - a desire that can not be satisfied - you always want more

Communism:
- utilities may not work
- low quality of service
- simple, slow society
- food decided by the government
- results in a poorer government
- more cooperation
- cooperate to export goods and service ...
- limited food supply
- a lot of queues and waiting, lines
- manufacturing disaster
- peaceful, no competition, no rat race
- apartments were identical
- less variety

Capitalism
- allows ambition, allows competition
- less cooperation

Error correction
✔I don't want to live in a world where there isn't freedom. (corrected)
✔he might be tired..., the event was tiresome...

`21.6.2
Capitalism vs Socialism vs Communism  (Political economical models)
1. Capitalism:  Products and services are provided by individuals
    - Permit to own profits especially means of production
2. Socialism:  Government owns and operates the means of production
    - Land, Natural resources, Factories
    - no incentive -> low production, mass poverty
    - ex. capitalism + socialism = Norway, Sweden, Finland
3. Communism:  Working class ✔owns everything, produces as a whole, and shares according to need

Capitalism - Products or Services provided by Individual... Profit...
Incentive to Produce More... Grow/Compete

Socialism - Government Controls Businesses - Distribute Wealth - No Incentive to Compete

Communism - Extreme form of Socialism - Complete Government Control over Economy

CAPITALISTIC
Social Welfare/Security Systems/Financial Benefits
Health Care
Pensions - assistance for the elderly
(✔to make ends meet - paying the bills, get by, top up their pension)
Students - subsidy (financial assistance for studies), allowance ($ to pay the bills)
COVID Assistance
Business Assistance

Public Business - Education, Medical Services, Electricity, Water, Gas, Public Transport, Mail Delivery, Food Rationing (fixed portion to people) - Poor

`21.6.1
The American government system
Legislative(Congress) ↔ Executive(The President) ↔ Judicial(Supreme Court)
- Legislative(Congress): 2 Senates in each state and several Representatives
- Executive(The President):
- Judicial(Supreme Court): 

*Politics
New vocabulary
1. What the three branches of the American government?

- legislative (us congress)
... enact laws, appoint judges, ✔plan and approve the budget, declare war
- executive - president, vice president, ✔cabinet ministers (homeland security, treasury, defense), appoint public officers, foreign affairs, diplomatic relations
- judicial branch - execute/enforce laws, federal laws are constitutional

citizen - ensure that their representative and senators have their best interests in mind, elections, jury duty, referendum, voting on policies, attending local meetings, voice their opinion, protests

ensure
to make something certain to happen:
The airline is taking steps to ensure safety on its aircraft.
[ + (that) ] The role of the police is to ✔ensure (that) the law is obeyed.

2. Does it work and how is it different from other systems?

system of checks and balances
balance of power
✔to have checks and balances in place

override
(of a person who has the necessary authority) to decide against or refuse to accept a previous decision, an order, a person, etc.:
Every time I make a suggestion at work, my boss overrides me/it.
The president used his veto to ✔override the committee's decision.

misuse power
dismantle a system
insightful


`21.5.31
aboriginal
volatile situation - can easily get out of control
controversial
New vocabulary
Questions to Guide Us:
1) Who are the Israelis and who are the Palestinians?
Israelis - they were Jews immigrated to Israel... Germany, Poland...
Palestinians - Originally in West Bank, Gaza, Israeli territory...

2) Why did the Palestinians and Israelis start fighting?
Ottoman Empire - lived together..
Territorial Dispute
Sectarian Violence - violence against a sect (group) based on ideology or religion..

Hamas - Gaza - goal is to give Palestinians their territory back...
Jerusalem - religious sites of both sects (Jews and Muslims)

3) What is the solutions?
Israel need to take responsibility for the situation.

4) What solutions were implemented on an international stage?
UN Proposal
Camp David Accord
OSLO Accord

5) Why is there still no peace?
Violence disrupting attempts to achieve peace...

Vocab:
consolidate
unify
✔volatile situation - can easily get out of control
controversial
impose sanctions

stir up violence
to cause feelings or emotions to be felt:
That music stirred some old emotions.
[ M ] He just likes to ✔stir up unrest.

✔enact a law - make a law (great vocab)
law abidance (noun) - following the law
at war - in conflict with each other
end war - stop ware

✔suspend war - temporary
to stop something from being active, either temporarily or permanently:
The ferry service has been suspended for the day because of bad weather.
The country's president has suspended the constitution and assumed total power.
When you go to the theatre, you have to be willing to suspend disbelief (= to act as if you believe that what you are seeing is real or true, although you know that it is not)

escalate - increase

Error correction
It has been maintaining for over 50 years... ✔It has been going on for over 50 years.
I have been maintaining my relationship

`21.5.30
-Vocabulary
to maintain harmony
they tried to be in harmony with each other
resentment (you feel that someone hurt you)
they are an island nation
aspect of their life

family - military, emperor, company

loyalty, dedication, sacrifice

overwork
overtime

after the law was enforced
work-life balance
capped (limited) working hours at 100
governance problem
conservative - follow tradition, rules
stems from - comes from
what is your take on this - what are your thoughts on this
to tell someone off

-Error correction
to harmonize with others .... to maintain harmony, to be in harmony with other people... avoid conflict

almost people died.... almost all people died

they feel tiresome to have a relationship... they feel burdened by a relationship.... the relationship is tiresome (adj.)

have a call - to give someone a call/to make a call/to be on a call
Schedules
I have a call at 7pm today. I am busy.

the trend has changed

tell off, critisize

to maintain harmony
resentment (you feel that someone hurt you)

qualm
an uncomfortable feeling when you doubt if you are doing the right thing:
She had no qualms about lying to the police.

`21.5.27
judgement, perception

our trust is conditioned by appearance - meaning?


our perception is conditioned by ...

illogical
trustful - trustworthy

on the opposite side of the spectrum

discriminates against - racism

we don't judge someone based on their appearance

need to become conscious of the halo effect

take everything into account

`21.5.25
special chabbis

misuse of authority

misuse of the obedience principal

blindly follow an authority figure

criteria

criterion (singular)

rules, law,, our rights

almost invested in
to conform (follow) to the rules/crowd

following the crowd blindly

pheremone

optimal (best)

eternally (forever)
in a way that lasts forever or for a very long time:
the eternally changing seasons
eternally weary/sad/cheerful

infinitely (number)
img
optimal route ... strongest pheromone
(edited)

mob mentality

group thinking

protests

election

social drinking

fashion

culture, way of life, concepts about good and bad

individual

necessarily bad

copying
img
mimic (v)

-Vocab
Vocab from Video
to comply
a phony machine
to posing as
obedience
conform to
to work harder or to slack off
to cheer on
social loafing
enmity
inclination

-Error correction
obedience ...
decision (pron.)
authority (pron.)
by obedience ... because of obedience
do evil (pron.) things
have evil behaviour
invest in
criteria to judge if the price is reasonable or not
to do due diligence on something - to do your research

mob mentality

group thinking
protests
election
social drinking
fashion
culture, way of life, concepts about good and bad
individual
necessarily bad
copying
mimic (v)

`21.5.24
 Social influence
- Milgram experiment, the learner was asked to memorize a list of word pairs, and the participant(teacher) was told he'd be testing the learner's recall of those words, and should administer an electric shock for every wrong answer, increasing shock level a little bit -> 2/3rd of the participants ended up delivering the maximum 450 volts shock
- Obedience was highest when the person giving the orders was nearby and was perceived as an authority figure, especially if they were from a prestigious institution
- Social Influence & Conformity, describes how we adjust our behaviour or thinking to follow the behavior or rules of the group we belong to
- Automotice Mimicary
- Normative social influence, the idea that we comply in order to fuel our need to be linked or belong
- Social Facilitation, stronger responses on simple or well-learned tasks in the presence of others
- Social Loafing, the tendency for people in a group to exert less effort when pooling their efforts towards attaining a common goal that when individually accountable
- Deindividuation, the loss of self-awareness and restraint that can occur in group situations, the less individual we feel, the more we're at the mercy of the experience of our group, whether it's good or bad
- Group Polarization, the enhancement of a group's prevailing inclinations through  discussion within the group
- Groupthink, the mode of thinking that occurs when the desire for harmony in a decision-making group overrides a realistic appraisal of alternatives

exhausting 
making you feel extremely tired:
I've had an exhausting day.

exhaustive
complete and including everything:
an exhaustive study/report

tiresome
exhausting - tiring
exhaustive - in all aspects/including everything/complete ... I shared the my experiences in exhaustive detail... exhaustive meeting/report

to take something for granted - to not give it the value it deserves ... to think it is always going to be there for them...

foster better relationship - to encourage development
cultivate a better relationship - to slowly, carefully ...

to get your priorities straight - to give important to the right things

to give someone time - relationships

we distance them from us - increase the distance

formality - to just do something as a formality
fulfilling - doesn't give us a deeper happiness

enriched my life - add value to something/someone

- Error correction 
I need to... I would need to (imaginary scenario)

I got married my wife... got married to my wife

experimenting with/on (pron.) - testing a hypothesis (guess)...  ... instead use the word study... study - collecting facts

it was still working - it was still ongoing (continuing)

confident (pron.) with the result
laboratory (pron.)

are the key __to__ happiness

`21.5.23
Zoom ID: 932 871 1732
Passcode: trial

`21.5.21
it is worth investing (correct)
to make a party - to have a party/to hold an event
doesn't has - doesn't have

bargain for a lower price
bring the price down
This coat was half-price - a real bargain.
The airline regularly offers last-minute bookings at bargain prices.

on the rise - increasing in popularity
to lose traction - to decrease in popularity, momentum

in the long run
at a time that is far away in the future:
It seems a lot of effort but I'm sure it's the best solution in the long run.

goal - personal
target - numbers
ambition - strong desire to competition

players
competitors

merchandise (uncountable)

features
characteristics

`21.5.20
I wanted to walk at dawn
It's 80 kms from here.

`21.5.19
process (pron.) - incorrect syllable
useful (pron.)

premise - base/foundation of an argument

Pre-Processing
data cleaning
data reduction
data integration
data transformation

Pattern Finding
Three Algorithms
Apriori
FP-growth
H-mine

there were three instances (occurrences - statistics) of car accidents in Sydney...


`21.5.18
Why are download speeds always higher than download speeds?

How do optical fiber cables work?

How do electrical signals become light signals?

it isn't needed...

processed (v)

[Server (Electric signal)] ↔ [Optical fiber cables] ↔ [Server] ↔ [Router to Device] or [Cell-Tower (Electromagnetic signal) to Device]

5G - more small cell to send electromagnetic signal

`21.5.17
realize this technology

profitable

to be the devil's advocate - to be negative, to be critical of a new idea, to skeptical

to maintain law and order

Chinese facial recognition system
Black mirror
internet services & 5G

`21.5.15
The fraud __instigates__ the incident.
Blockchain technology will __decentralizes__ the intellectual properties.
I'd like to __be competent__ about programming skills.
In the series, __power outages__ happen when there is a monster around the house.
I __barely know__ about the truth of the election.
In order to __take on__ the company, you should be cautious.
At work, I manually __overrode__ many documents.
In order to __come up with__ upcoming monsoon season, we need to be prepared.
Old bridges should __be superseded by__ a new and safe one.
A tax __rebate__ is hunny.
Don't __deceive__ people.
First, let's debunk the issue. It's so exaggerated.
The __cover-up__ by the government should be revealed.
We need to be able to __discern__ the conspiracy not to be deceived.

The fraud __instigates__ the incident. ... The discovery of the fraud instigated a criminal investigation.

Blockchain technology will __decentralize__ the intellectual property.

I'd like to __be competent__ at programming skills.

In the series, __power outages__ happen when there is a monster around the house.

I __barely know__ about the truth of the election.

In order to __take on__ the company, you should be cautious.

At work, I manually __overrode__ many documents.

In order to __come up with__ idea...

Old bridges should __be superseded by__ a new and safe one.

A tax __rebate__ is good fortune/good luck/welcome.

Don't __deceive__ people.

First, let's debunk the issue. It's so exaggerated.

The __cover-up__ by the government should be revealed.

We need to be able to __discern__ the conspiracy to avoid being deceived.

`21.5.14
instigate/cause

Disadvantages - Physical Assets - Organization - Intermediaries - Middle Men

Centralized - requires trust, control flow of money, information, intellectual property, patents, intellectual or creative assets, interest rates, hacking [Blockchain: digitally protecting and authenticating the transaction]

Social Inequality - excluded people, include people [Blockchain: rights are shared among users]

Processing

Time

Cut/Commission

How the blockchain is changing money and business

- Block chain
- next generation of internet
- internet send copy
- cpytocurrency
- trust - middleman (cetification)

- problem 
- 1. centralized, can be hacked
- 2. takes time (to send money)
- 3. privacy (private data)
- 4. social inequality

- every valueable value trade
- digital cash -> cryptocurrency, bitcoin
- technology, blockchain
- peer to peer trust made by blockchian

- how it works?
- ethorieum blockchain

- why sholud we care
- prosperity, new apporach to inequality
- democratize the wealth creation

- prosperity
- 1. valid title, protecting rights through immutable records
- 2. creating a true sharing economy
- 3. ending the remittance rip-off
- 4. recapturing our identities (enabling citizens to own & monetize their own data)
- 5. ensuring compensation for the creators of value

`21.5.12
to be competent

outage

I know very little
I barely know about this...

to take on = challenge
to fight or compete against someone or something:
I’ll take you on in a game of chess.
You have to be brave to take on a big corporation in court.

manual override

MCAS

`21.5.11
come up with
If you come up with a plan or idea, you think of it and suggest it. If you come up with a sum of money, you manage to produce it when it is needed. 

supersede
to replace something, especially something older or more old-fashioned:
Most of the old road has been superseded by the great interstate highways.

hot air rhetoric = discussion, talking about

global response = action to fix a problem

supersede = to take the place of

rhetoric = discussion, talking about something
speech or writing intended to be effective and influence people:
How far the president will be able to translate his campaign rhetoric into action remains to be seen.
I was swayed by her rhetoric into donating all my savings to the charity.

hot air = nonsense, saying but not doing

Paris protocol

to be on track to achieving a goal = not going to achieve

to take measures

incentivize - encourage

to invest in renewable energy/alternative energy

subsidies

rebates - refunds
an amount of money that is returned to you, especially by the government, for example when you have paid too much tax:
a tax rebate

gst - goods on services tax

curb - limit

recover from the pandemic

vivid - clear

`21.5.10
a conspiracy
a secret plan by a group to do something unlawful or harmful

to deceive people - to cheat or manipulate

a covert organization - hidden
hidden or secret:
covert actions
The government was accused of covert military operations against the regime.

explain something to someone...

the theory was debunked
debunk
to show that something is less important, less good, or less true than it has been made to appear:
The writer's aim was to debunk the myth that had grown up around the actress.

a cover up (noun)
an attempt to prevent the public from discovering information about a serious crime or mistake:
Allegations of a cover-up of the effects of pollution have been strongly denied.

to cover something up (verb)
to keep something unpleasant or illegal secret or hidden:
He accused the police of covering up for each other.
They’re trying to cover up the truth.

groundless
without cause:
My fears turned out to be groundless.

stubborn

admirable - worthy of respect

take sth out
to remove something from somewhere:
They had to take out two of his teeth.
to take out your anger...

If I am educated from... by government...

past continuous vs past simple
They were believing -> They believed?

I came to - I slowly..

`21.5.8
the issue has died down

to alleviate a problem

reward for my contribution
objective
consistent effort
keep an eye on the issue
progress of the measure

I was surprised by that...

`21.5.7
I'm trying to take care of it preciously.
my wife and me -> my wife and I

`21.5.6 
1. Use plain, obvious, universal language - Understanding
 - visual, vivid language
 - ex. overheating, extreme weather, cheap energy, 9degrees 

2. Matters to you, your life, your concern
 - stop climate change -> stop local flooding
 - better world for their child
 - our lives, our values, our child

3. Narrow identity marker. 
 - Not explaining to people, explain it to me?, deal with your 

`21.5.5
10,000 theory - expert

not always the case

mediocre - common - not special

working class person - mediocre

never progress

a steep learning curve
When do you find the learning curve is very steep ?

learn rapidly

to plateau (v) - improvement is flat
to reach a particular level and then stay the same:
I'd been losing about a pound a week on my diet, but recently I've plateaued and haven't lost an ounce.

Why do most people plateau and eventually quit on their goal?

1) difficult to increase their skill beyond the advanced level
- encounter opportunities
- face your fears
- knowledge - fluency
- vision

2) the key to improve continuously is quality of effort and not quantity

- introducing yourself to unfamiliar techniques, skills, difficulties
- just wanting to finish

3) interest, passion

- over time people lose interest

plateau at a certain level ....
motivation comes from seeing progress

plateau(n)
a period during which there are no large changes:
The US death rate reached a plateau in the 1960s, before declining suddenly.

vertical
standing or pointing straight up or at an angle of 90° to a horizontal surface or line:
vertical lines/stripes

learn rapidly

`21.5.4
to get by / to make ends meet / to survive financially

it covers the basic necessities/expenses

50% of the average income goes towards rent and the basic necessities

determination
perserverance

git 
Grit is the combination of courage, passion, perseverance and strong character to work hard at something, and consistently follow through.

Talent
People say that talent is just the starting point. Talent can be lost without applying some true grit to learning. Motivation plays a critical part in mastering a new skill.

little by little


`21.5.3
extraterrestrial
in or coming from a place outside the planet Earth:
In those rocks may lie the best chance of finding extraterrestrial life.

as soon as we woke up... got up
if I won the lottery I would ..
wish
living on a pension
villa
she decided that she would spent it on shopping...

Aladin - Genie - gave you three wishes

I would wish for ...families health
to be a billionaire
to become an expert in AI

to put a pause on something - to put a pause on their plans just for someone more time

to restrain our urges/wishes/desires - to control or limit

it will be improved....

Gap Fill: wishes... grammar

What would you wish for?
1) I _____would____ wish ____for__ a new house.
   I _____would____ wish ____to__ go to travel.

2) If I _____had_____ 1 million dollars I would ____go_____ on a holiday.

3) I would wish to live ____on___ a regular pension.
I live on the dividends that get from my investments. (support yourself)
I live off my parents (financially depend on them).
*live on
If you live on an amount of money, that is the money that you use to buy the things that you need:
We lived on very little when we first got married.
*live off
to use someone or something to provide the money or food that you need to live:
All his life he had lived off his father.
They had learned to live off the land (= grow or find their own food).

4) Many people need to ____put_____ a pause/hold __on___ their plans.

5) We also need to ____restrain_____ (limit or control) our desires and wishes until the pandemic ends.

extravagant
spending too much money, or using too much of something:
the extravagant lifestyle of a movie star
It was very extravagant of you to buy strawberries out of season.

`21.5.1
to take someone in - find someone on the street ... to give them a home.

would an average Korean family take in a homeless person?

In India this very uncommon...
it is frowned upon (criticized... not accepted)...

black mother adopts the killer of her son...
Christian - believe in forgiveness

trust and forgiveness... kindness

I'm still in disbelief (feeling)

I'm still speechless/in shock...

respectful behaviour
worthy of praise
deserves praise

nursing homes ... family ... takes in ... old people ... neglected by their families...

they run the nursing room ...
make the service more personal... more intimate...

I respect their behaviour/actions

their own families neglect them

donate to nursing homes....

run off donations....

children pay for the elderly

after they raise their children...
after the children grow up....

do they feel neglected (ignored/not included in the family/not given attention).

don't want to be a burden on their children

1 mother can take care of 20 children but 20 children couldn't take care of 1 mothers

reciprocity - I give and then I receive

reciprocal relationship - the tress give oxygen and receive c02....

inspired
excellent, or resulting from inspiration:
an inspired performance/choice
an inspired suggestion/guess

`21.4.30
nominal
in name or thought but not in fact or not as things really are:
She's the nominal head of our college - the real work is done by her deputy.

to go missing - the child went missing

incident - occurrence, usually an accident
an event that is either unpleasant or unusual:
an isolated/serious/unfortunate incident
A youth was seriously injured in a shooting incident on Saturday night.

nuclear reactor

gossip - secrets, talking about others

politics - manipulation, hiding from each other

affairs - illegitimate relationships

seems like history repeats itself - a famous saying in English meaning the same thing happens again and again

autopsy - conducted by a pathologist

meaningful

to show/to illustrate - I think the recurrence of events from generation to generation illustrates how human behaviour doesn't change over time.

theme - main message of literature or a production. - one of the themes of this show is that love can be complicated... history repeats itself...

capable - competent

the message/the lesson/the moral of the story

to judge someone

to pass judgment on someone

to gossip - to talk about someone behind their back - saying negative things about them

In the story that you told me... there was no gossip.

represent/symbolize - object has meaning --- the yin and yang symbol in the Korean flag represents/symbolize the good and the bad in every situation.

metaphors - object that represents something else...

A rising sun is a metaphor for a new opportunity, a new life, hope.

politics
activities that are related to getting or keeping power within a particular company, organization, etc.:
company/office/workplace politics Don't be seen as a troublemaker and avoid company politics.

incident - occurrence, usually an accident
an event that is either unpleasant or unusual:
an isolated/serious/unfortunate incident
A youth was seriously injured in a shooting incident on Saturday night.

gossip
conversation or reports about other people's private lives that might be unkind, disapproving, or not true:
Her letter was full of gossip.
I don't like all this idle gossip.

autopsy
the cutting open and examination of a dead body in order to discover the cause of death:
They carried out/performed an autopsy.
The body arrived for autopsy at the Dallas hospital.

metaphor
an expression, often found in literature, that describes a person or object by referring to something that is considered to have similar characteristics to that person or object:
"The mind is an ocean" and "the city is a jungle" are both metaphors.

`21.4.28
many reasons for it
I'm not sure about it

inclusive(adj)
An inclusive price or amount includes everything:
My rent is $700 a month inclusive (of bills).

bias(n)

prejudice(n)
an unfair and unreasonable opinion or feeling, especially when formed without enough thought or knowledge:
Laws against racial prejudice must be strictly enforced.
[ + that ] The campaign aims to dispel the prejudice that AIDS is confined to the homosexual community.

prejudice(v)
to form an opinion about a situation or a person before knowing or considering all of the facts:
Let's not prejudge the situation - we need to hear both sides of the story first.

apparent, obvious/visible
able to be seen or understood:
Her unhappiness was apparent to everyone.
[ + that ] It was becoming increasingly apparent that he could no longer take care of himself

in comparison to
it is unfortuante in comparison to living together

unfortunate
unlucky or having bad effects:
She has inherited her father's large nose, which is very unfortunate.

synopsis
a short description of the contents of something such as a film or book

economic recession, crisis, downturn
internal affairs
impose sanction

`21.4.27
rig
rig the election - manipulate/corrupt something
to arrange dishonestly for the result of something, for example an election, to be changed:
Previous elections in the country have been rigged by the ruling party.

on someone's side
to be by his side - supporting

to run for office/presidency - to want to be the leader

created an alliance - a group of allies

impose sanctions on ...

to occupy a piece land - to take control of it by force

oligarch, super rich people
embezzlement - stealing money
one of a small group of powerful people who control a country or an industry:
He tells the story of the new Russian oligarchs and how they amassed enormous fortunes when the Soviet Union broke up.

on someone's side
to be by his side - supporting

This could be due to dictatorship.
economic crisis
incompetent - not suitable for the role

in the long-term
in the long-run

just
fair; morally correct:
The judge's sentence was perfectly just in the circumstances.
I don't really think he had just cause to complain.

internal affairs
international affairs

✔propaganda(n)
delivery of news to manipulate people
information, ideas, opinions, or images, often only giving one part of an argument, that are broadcast, published, or in some other way spread with the intention of influencing people's opinions:
political/wartime propaganda
At school we were fed communist/right-wing propaganda.

neutral
not saying or doing anything that would encourage or help any of the groups involved in an argument or war:
If there's an argument between my daughter and her mother, it's important that I remain neutral.
The peace conference would have to be held in a neutral country.
media company is neutral
biased (adj)

✔dictatorship
[ C ]
a country ruled by a dictator:
a military dictatorship
[ U ]
the state of being, or being ruled by, a dictator:
The dictatorship of Franco lasted for nearly 40 years.

Surrogate
replacing someone else or used instead of something else:
Because she had no children of her own, her friend's son became a kind of surrogate child to her


`21.4.26
Aggregation
the process of combining things or amounts into a single group or total:
Installation art - the aggregation of objects in a space - has long dominated the visual arts.

Stepwise(adj)
happening or changing in a series of regular stages:
I took a stepwise approach, figuring out the problem first, then searching for possible solutions.

Compile
-to collect information from different places and arrange it in a book, report, or list:
We're compiling some facts and figures for a documentary on the subject.
-to change a computer program into a machine language

✔leverage(n)
power to influence people and get the results you want:
If the United Nations had more troops in the area, it would have greater leverage.
leverage(v)
to use something that you already have in order to achieve something new or better:
We can gain a market advantage by leveraging our network of partners.

uprising
to suppress the uprising
an act of opposition, sometimes using violence, by many people in one area of a country against those who are in power:
Following a determined resistance in the east, there was eventually a popular uprising in the capital.

humans are blinded by power and money

✔massacre(n)
an act of killing a lot of people:
He ordered the massacre of 2,000 women and children.
massacre(v)
to kill many people in a short period of time:
Hundreds of civilians were massacred in the raid.

to run a campaign (organized movement)

to stand up against - to rebel, to oppose someone, to fight for your rights

oppose
to disagree with something or someone, often by speaking or fighting against it, him, or her:
The proposed new testing system has been vigorously opposed by teachers.
Most of the local residents opposed the closing of the school.

claw
one of the sharp curved nails at the end of each of the toes of some animals and birds:
Our cat likes to sharpen her claws on the legs of the dining table.

`21.4.25
✔Put up something
to attach something, esp. to a wall:
We put up some new pictures in the living room.

Commemorate
to remember officially and give respect to a great person or event, especially by a public ceremony or by making a statue or special building:
Gathered all together in this church, we commemorate those who lost their lives in the war.

✔Enforce
to make people obey a law, or to make a particular situation happen or be accepted:
It isn't always easy for the police to enforce speed limits.

Combustible
able to burn easily:
Wood and coal are both combustible substances.

Flammable
Something that is flammable burns easily:
Caution! This solvent is highly flammable.

✔Drastic
(especially of actions) severe and sudden or having very noticeable effects:
drastic measures

✔Virulent
A virulent disease or poison is dangerous and spreads or affects people very quickly:
A particularly virulent strain of flu has recently claimed a number of lives in the region.

Contagious
A contagious disease can be caught by touching someone who has the disease or a piece of infected clothing:
The infection is highly contagious, so don't let anyone else use your towel.

Compostable
Something that is compostable can be used as compost when it decays:
compostable garden waste

Compost(n, v)
decaying plant material that is added to soil to improve its quality(n)
to collect and store plant material so it can decay and be added to soil to improve its quality:(v)
Restaurants should compost food waste whenever possible.

Take-up
how much people start to use or accept a service, or sometimes a product, that has become available to them:
We are calling for government action to improve the take-up of state benefits.

✔Tamper
-to touch or make changes to something that you should not, usually without enough knowledge of how it works or when you are trying to damage it:
I could see immediately that the lock had been tampered with.
Tampering with pipelines could result in ruptures or fires.
-to speak to and try to influence someone involved in a legal case:
She is charged with official misconduct and tampering with witnesses.
A previous trial was stopped owing to fears of someone tampering with the jury.

Subsidize
to pay part of the cost of something:
£50 would help to subsidize the training of an unemployed teenager.

Disposable
A disposable product is intended to be thrown away after use:
disposable nappies

Biodegradable
able to decay naturally and in a way that is not harmful:
Biodegradable packaging helps to limit the amount of harmful chemicals released into the atmosphere.

revise
to look at or consider again an idea, piece of writing, etc. in order to correct or improve it:
His helpfulness today has made me revise my original opinion/impression of him.

DESIRES
to take the time to do something
to take the time out of your day to do something (make time - stronger)
to make time for something

to pamper myself - do something indulgent/pleasurable/enjoyable

to indulge in something - do something enjoyable which you normally wouldn't do... sometimes you feel guilty

he felt skeptical towards life
he lost hope in life
he felt that most people are hypocritical
he lived as a nomad
he met many genuine people (real, honest, not fake)
he gave up his materialistic life
he gave up his worldly (related to our social life) possessions

Other Vocab:
to hunt for (search)/to hunt (kill animals for food)
quote

designer babies

to tamper with genes - to alter/to mess around with/interfere

favoritism

suffer from an illness

stigma - a bad opinion of something

there is stigma attached to GM foods.

approved by the government

plentiful/available

license is valid (legal)/reliable (trustworthy)

permission was grant by the government

packaging

😲pronunciation

😲Expression
way of thinking, mindset
precise/ accurate/ correct
appropriate/ proper 
look for/ expect
based on/ based off
I'd like to/ I want to/ I hope to
I'm trying to/ 

😲Words
distinguish from/with / discern/ 
immediately/ instantly
property/ characteristic/ trait
depend on/ count on
skim over/ look through/ go over
according to/ depeding on
grasp, understand
dawnting/ exhausting


discern/ recognize
prevent/ prohibit/ forbid/ 
inherit  give or take ?
discard/ 
distrub
traverse , imperative, indeed (really or certainly, often used to emphasize something), deterministic (believing that everything that happens must happen as it does and could not have happened any other way, or relating to this belief:)


===========

`21.4.21
to take the time to do something
to take the time out of your day to do something (make time - stronger)
to make time for something

to pamper myself - do something indulgent/pleasurable/enjoyable

to indulge in something - do something enjoyable which you normally wouldn't do... sometimes you feel guilty

he felt skeptical towards life
he lost hope in life
he felt that most people are hypocritical
he lived as a nomad
he met many genuine people (real, honest, not fake)
he gave up his materialistic life
he gave up his worldly (related to our social life) possessions

to hunt for (search)/to hunt (kill animals for food)
quote
Happiness only real when shared

`21.4.17
designer babies

to tamper with genes - to alter/ to mess around with/interfere

favoritism
suffer from an illness

stigma
a strong feeling of disapproval that most people in a society have about something, especially when this is unfair:
There is no longer any stigma to being divorced.
there is stigma attached to GM foods.

approved by the government
plentiful/available

license is valid (legal)/reliable (trustworthy)
permission was grant by the government


`21.4.16
hostile 
poverty 
They live in poverty.
contrast
highlights social issues

render
to cause someone or something to be in a particular state:
[ + adj ] His rudeness rendered me speechless.

Hole in the wall

the wall is broken (adj.)

hostile (dangerous, unwelcoming) environment

poverty - colourless

fence, barbed wire - cage, trapped (adj.), restricted

contrast (two different things are compared)

contrast between the rich lifestyle and lifestyle of the poor - gap between the rich and poor

children are innocent (truthful, pure), imagination

capacity to dream

highlights social issues - street art
social issues examples: rich and poor gap, racism, gun crimes/accidents, violence, war, discrimination against women, capitalism - competition, selfishness, greed ("I WANT MORE $, POWER etc.), cheating, envy, comparison

yearning
longing for - deep desire of the soul
we are longing for love

😲😲pronunciation
/caught - au - /aw/
fought - /aw/
distraught - /aw/
hostile

😲😲Expression, words
painstaking, taking tests, 
manageable
extremly + adj(hard, difficult)
comprehensible 
forte, perseverance

My calling is teaching
It is my calling
It's my vocation

It came into the limelight (public attention and interest)
She's been in the limelight recently, following the release of her controversial new film.


belong to/in/with
I belong to this group. (statement of fact like member)
I belong in/with this group. (feel)
Where do they belong?, Who do they belong to?

effort/ endeavor/ work on
I make an effort. 
I made an effort to do well the test.
I made an effort to lenarn enlish.
I am working on it.

affect/ have an effect on/ have an impact on (impact)/ effect/ implict 
The divorce affected every aspect of her life.
Falling export rates have impacted (on) the country's economy quite considerably.

affective/effective
effective = useful

method, way
I have a new way of doing it. Do you want to know?
I have a new method (process, scientific) of doing it. Do you want to know?

put off/ postpone/ 
I put off my homework till tomorrow.
I postpone my homework till tomorrow
The manager put off the meeting.
up to (the time that); until:

extract/ 
We extracted oil out of(from) ground.

reinforce/ enforce
I reinforced the fen.
I reinforced the area with troops.
The police enforced speed limit. (obey a law)
The officers enforced the regulation.
I was forced to follow the law. 

enroll in/for/at
I enroll in a course for something.
I enroll on a website for seacrhing the information.
I enroll at the office for the program.
I signed up for the course.

see/ look at
He looked at the painting.
I understand(see). 

withdraw from a course
I withdrew from the course.
I withdrew from the activity.
I withdrew money from the bank.
I withdrew money.

process/ procedure(man-made series of steps)/ 
I'm processing the information.

reject(formal)/ refuse/ 
I rejected the proposal.
My submission was rejected.
I refused the proposal.
I refused wearing a mask.
I refused to do something

modify(correct it)/ revise(make better)/ review
I modified something.

come up with, 
I invented it.

comply with/ keep/ follow 
I comply with the rules.
I have to follow the rules. (not keep)

in place of/ 
instead of 


allocate, assign
- allocate, resources, I allocate memory to/for the function. / I allocate different part  of budget to different department
- assign, I assigned this task to Jhon. / I 

- enroll in, I enrolled in the program.  
- sign up for, I signed up for the class.

- mundane(experience, average, slightly negative)/ ordinary/ normal/ regular(posivive)
- This food is ordinary. The movie was mundane. 
- normal/ common(happen a lot, often)

- expect/ anticipate/ 
- expect(think will happen). I expect that the
- anticipate(looking forward to it, know)

- weird/ strange/ odd

- right away(very soon)/ right now(right the second)

- standard/ criterion(more formal)

She requested an increase in the wage...
She requested a higher wage...

Why didn't she settle for the lower wage?
settle for - accept a compromise

Something will come along (happen in the future).

She negotiated for a better wage.

to be passionate about

to do something by yourself - you do it without help
to think for yourself - expression - you understand a problem and make decisions without help...

to turn down the offer/suggestion/request ...

idea/thought/concept/notion// norm?   
idea (small, new)/thought (gesture/idea)/concept (connection)/notion (belief)/norm (habit, tradition, noun for normal)
She gave me a new shirt... it was a nice thought.
Do you have any thoughts on (ideas about) what to do for the next class?
I want to make chicken curry tonight... RESPONSE: nice thought/idea, may be we should do that.
Not wearing shoes or sandals during summer is a norm (culture, tradition - serious, ritual) in beach-side towns in Australia.

claim about ?
claim about - when you say something is true, without proof
He made a claim about his involvement in the crime. He claimed that he wasn't present when it all happened.

extends/ extension / expansion / 
extend (v)/ extension (n) - linear, one direction, length of time, physical length
We are going to extend the project deadline to next month.
My cousin's visit has been extend from Sunday to next Thursday, so he will stay for another four days.
expansion (n) - all directions, physical, sybolic
The business needs to expand, but the expansion might be risky because of the big investment.

unfortunate, unlucky, misfortune
unfortunate (formal - serious), unlucky (informal - less serious) - it is not your fault - just bad luck
It is unfortunate that you lost your job. You are so unfortunate, That, This, It is unfortunate...
He is unfortunate who cannot deal with misfortune (serious).
I am so sorry to hear that (serious).
Too bad, better luck next time. (less serious)
It is unlucky that you lost your job. You are so unlucky... bad things always happen to you.

inherit, inherit from (inherit smt from sm)
ex. I inherit his project. I inherit my parents property. I inherit my parent's trains. 
I inherit my hair from my parents. 

in terms of, when it comes to, regarding, 
-in terms of, introducing a context or something
-when it comes to, with events
-regarding, 

depending on, dependent on the outcome
according to, (source of information, where the information is coming from)

become, (process), getting frustrated, 
be, want to be 

with, 
through, (while, leanring, action)

be familiar with, (understand it well)
get used to, (life style, current, able to be tolerate)
be accustomed to, (get used to)

become/be familiar with the concept with/through the assignemnt, 
get used to smt

replace A with B
substitue A for B

could you know me ? = could you tell me ? could you let me know ?
Could you teach me? Could you explain me? Could you exlain this to me?

from the perspective of, in the case of, (different)
from the perspective of/in the opinion of 
from the perspective of a poor man, the rich are selfish.
the rich were looked after after WWII but unfortunately in the case of the poor victims during WWII, they often were left without support.

as long as (common)/ so as long

why don't we / how about?
struggle, I am struggling - this is difficult for me.
have a good relationship with my professor
consist of / is consisted(no) 
depends / depends on + object / depending on (start sentence)
Aside from (not Asiding from)

Aside from - other than than this - considering other things
apart from
different from

similar to (not similiar with)
Isn't it considered an abstract object? 
It is considered to be/as an offensive man.
It is considered offensive.
She is known as the Hitler of the new age.
It is considered taboo.
It is considered a sin to drink during Holy Week.
It is considered to be offensive.

compare to/with
substitute for/with
apply to/for
ask something/ask about 
get stuck (I was stuck, I got stuck)
out of/ among/ ex. Out of five cases, among five cases

to be kicked out - to be asked to leave
I compared myself to him/with him.
I substituted meat in my diet with vegetables. (use or add in place of)
You can substitute oil for butter in this recipe.

I applied for a CV role at Google. for + role
I applied to Google for a CV role. to + company

Did you ask something? Did you say something?
Did you ask her something?
I slept in... I over slept

I asked a question.
I asked + pronoun
I asked + something/anything/everything/question
I asked my professor about algorithms. (about + topic)
regard = about but more formal
I have a concern regarding your code.
I have a concern about your code.
I asked about CV.
I asked regarding... (incorrect)
reporting verb: ask, say, tell, think ...
I asked about
I talked about
I think about
I said about (WRONG)
I said something about/regarding (more formal) ....

regard: in connection with
I am writing to you with regard to your letter of 15 March.
I am writing to you regarding your letter of 15 March.

I have a great idea (new)
The concept/idea of marriage is slowly becoming obsolete.
I have a great notion

I want to clean the house today.
No a bad idea!

The concept (consists of many idea/connections - NOT NEW) of cleaning I think originated as humans became more civilized.
Not a bad concept (WRONG - because not new)

The notion (belief - this word is sophisticated - debates) that cleaning is necessary before welcoming guests should be challenged.
